Today I realized that I am not slow. Despite what others may think. It may take some time for me to verbalize my thoughts, but I understand that it is because I have an overwhelming amount of them. I don't just pick and choose what threads of thought to follow. I always try to compress all of the insight that rushes to me into a single, coherent model. This is difficult. And takes time. It leads to pauses (often), stuttering (though infrequently), and other people take it as a sign of low intelligence I guess. In a world that is optimized for speed and surface level comprehension, it feels as though my depth is unseen, mistaken for a trait that is unfavorable. But I know that I am an iceberg.

Recently, I feel I have been very volatile. Irritated, yes, but I mean I have been cognitively saturated and feel that my mood swings very easily. One day I have worked up the confidence and necessity to start externalizing the artifacts of my cognition, but the next feels as though I am swallowed by introspection. The recursion runs deep in these introspective periods. So much so that I become hyperfixated like I would normally become when programming or working with other abstract subjects. However, because the nature of introspection is that it is an internal process, there is no recursion depth limit for my thoughts. Each loop that begins leads to another, and that to another, and that to another, and that to another. The loops become a spiral, like a slinky, fancy staircase. But they never return. Why? Because my mind seeks closure when introspection offers none. The funny thing is however, most people would talk themselves into closure. I refuse to do so. It is impossible for me to do so. I think it is because there are epistemological factors at play, even in regards to my own mind. And therefore, I do not want to let the conscious produce poison as answers from my own questioning. This is where I have finally stumbled on the great paradox of introspection. It is hard to draw conclusions of the process of mind while the mind acts as the questioner and adjudicator. This is analogous to a criminal acting as the honor at his own trial; or an apprentice awarding himself with the title of artisan where he has not used external metrics to validate mastery in his craft.

I wonder why I lack the motivation to create these vestiges of my cognition. Well I suppose the motivation is present. But the execution is impossible. I wonder if it is because of external stressors which have accumulated silently in the back of my mind, or maybe it is because I am not in an environment where my mind feels it is sovereign. I feel that I often am a slave to my mind and its curiosities. I have to pursue relentlessly in whatever direction it takes me. I wonder if this plays into Dabrowski's ideas of intellectual excitability, or if it is some signage of a more serious condition of mind.

It frustrates me when I cannot fully capture all of the insight my mind produces. Most spawns disappear from working memory before the consciousness has the ability to process it. I feel it often has to do with the linearity and sluggish complexion of speech. It is rather frustrating and overwhelming at times. It is possible that my working memory lags significantly behind my abstraction abilities. Though I do not perceive my working memory to be limited. I can concur that it is probable my working memory is sufficient to the likes of many, but may lag in comparison to my cognitive strengths. While writing, I drew a structural analogy of how the brain processes items in working memory. I imagine it to be similar to how data is transferred from L1/L2 cache into a CPU register for processing. I wonder if this was the inspiration for low level data transfer in this regard.

I have concluded that writing is a sort of catharsis. At least it is very soothing to me. I never thought I would find so much relief in writing like this; adjacent to a form of meditation.

I seek to be successful in life, whatever I may deem to be a successful life. I fear though that my lack of function will be crippling to my early career prospects. Many don't seem to see my value or intellectual worth. In cogitation, I would presume it is because I haven't left many relevant, externalized artifacts for others to hold and manipulate. Many don't believe without a product. Rightly so. Why should they? What do they owe to me?

I guess the main goal I am set on now is to try and harness my innate abilities (which may act as a detriment currently, ironically). The truth is, I'm afraid of complexity. As I've grown older and wiser, I have begun to see more and more during conception and has thus acted as a deterrent from execution. It's disheartening. I hope that one day (soon) this strife will end.